- [Instructor] Using a Git ignore file is another best
practice for your team.
It prevents unnecessary files from entering your repository
such as those specific to your IDE that are used for
configuring workspaces.
Let's run a quick demonstration that builds
a Git ignore file.
To perform this demonstration we'll work on an example
Java project that's been built with Eclipse.
You'll find this project in your course materials.
The name of the project is Git-Ignore-Demo.
If we take a look within the project,
you'll see that we have several files and directories
that are specific to the Eclipse workspace.
For example, the class path and the project and
the settings directories and files are all used by Eclipse.
The bin directories just going to contain
our compiled classes.
Those things don't need to go into our repositories.
Let's go ahead and build a Git ignore file to
keep them out.
Most often Git ignore files are placed within the root
of the repository.
So I'm just going to use them to create the file and
then we'll go ahead and add its content.
So the first thing we're going to do is exclude the
.project file found within our project.
So here we're illustrating how you can exclude a file
by using an exact file name.
Within the Git ignore file we're going to add these lines
and each of those lines basically represents a pattern
that tells Git to whether or not to allow a file to be
placed into the repository.
The .project line we just added represents
an exact file name match.
So anywhere within our working directory if there's a
file with the name .project it's not going to be included.
This includes within subdirectories of our working files.
We're going to do the exact same pattern for the class path
file and then we're going to add the settings directory.
So with this pattern, we haven't added a forward slash
at the end of it.
So that means .settings will match both files
and directories.
So both a .settings file and a .settings directory will
be excluded from our repository.
Now if we just want to exclude a directory but allow
files with the same name then we add the forward slash.
Another thing that we can do is add wild carding.
So here we can add and asterisk and say .class.
That's going to excluded any class files from
entering our repository.
So there basically is a globbing pattern that's used
in order to match file names or directories.
You can do things like using two asterisks and that's
going to be able to grab bin in a subdirectory and
exclude that.
So we don't need to do that within this project,
but it's just good to know.
At this point I'm going to write the file,
then we're going to init our Git repository.
And then we'll go ahead and add the files to the
repository and now if we use Git status to inspect the
state of our repository,
you'll see that only the ignore file and our application
source code have been staged for commit into the repository.
And that's thanks to all the work that we did within
the Git ignore file.
As your team sets up its projects,
it's highly recommended that you build a Git ignore file
so that you can keep unwanted files
out of your repositories.